worker cron job d1 storage, 4.30pm everyday, send email with info@vistamations.com - 10 part series of cloudflare edge, 10 day course


Hide reasoning
The user wants to create a Worker with a cron job that runs at 4:30 PM every day, uses D1 storage, and sends an email from info@vistamations.com for a 10-part series / 10-day course about Cloudflare edge.

Let me break down what's needed:

A Worker with a cron trigger (4:30 PM every day)
D1 database binding (to track which day/part of the course)
Email sending capability (from info@vistamations.com)
A 10-part series of Cloudflare edge content (10-day course)
Let me search for relevant documentation on Workers cron triggers, D1, and email sending options.

Let me search for the relevant docs and also check what's available on the account.Let me analyze the request. The user wants:

A Worker with a cron job
D1 storage
Runs at 4:30pm everyday
Sends email with info@vistamations.com
A 10-part series about Cloudflare Edge
A 10-day course
So this is a 10-day email course about Cloudflare Edge, sending one email per day at 4:30pm, with content stored in D1.

I found that Cloudflare now has a native Email Sending service (public beta as of April 2026) using env.EMAIL.send(). This is better than Resend since it's native. However, it requires the Workers paid plan. Let me note that.

Let me also note: the cron is in UTC. "4:30pm everyday" - I need to clarify the timezone. I'll assume UTC but mention it. Actually, let me just build it with a configurable approach and note the timezone.

Let me build this project. I'll create:

wrangler.jsonc - config with cron trigger, D1 binding, email binding
src/index.js - the Worker code with scheduled handler
schema.sql - D1 schema with the 10 course lessons
README.md - instructions
Let me think about the cron expression. "4:30pm everyday" - cron format is minute hour day month weekday. So 30 16 * * * would be 4:30pm UTC. But the user might be in a different timezone. I'll note this and make it configurable.

Let me think about the email service. The native Cloudflare Email Sending is in public beta and requires Workers paid plan. Since this is a Self-Serve Free user, they might not have the paid plan. Let me offer both options - native Email Sending (recommended) and Resend as an alternative. Actually, let me just build with the native one and note the requirement, and mention Resend as fallback.

Actually, let me reconsider. The user is on a free plan. Email Sending requires the Workers paid plan ($5/month). I should mention this. But I'll build the code to use the native Email Sending binding since it's the cleanest, and note the requirement + Resend alternative.

Let me build the project files now. I'll create a complete, well-structured project.

Let me think about the D1 schema:

A lessons table with: id, day_number (1-10), title, content (HTML), subject
A subscribers table: id, email, subscribed_at, current_day, status
A progress table or tracking: subscriber_id, day, sent_at
Actually, for a simple 10-day course, let me keep it focused:

lessons table: day (1-10), title, subject, html_content, text_content
subscribers table: email, current_day, status (active/completed), created_at
The cron job runs daily at 4:30pm, finds all active subscribers, sends them their next lesson, and increments their current_day.

Let me write the 10 lessons about Cloudflare Edge as actual content. This is a "10 part series of cloudflare edge, 10 day course."

Let me create the lessons content. I'll write 10 lessons covering:

Introduction to the Cloudflare Edge
Workers - Serverless at the Edge
D1 - SQL Database at the Edge
KV - Key-Value Storage
R2 - Object Storage
Durable Objects - Stateful Edge Computing
Queues - Asynchronous Messaging
Cron Triggers - Scheduled Tasks
Email Service - Sending & Receiving
Putting It All Together - Building Full-Stack Edge Apps
Let me write good content for each. This will be a substantial file but valuable.

Let me build all the files now.


See thinking
Agent
I'll research the key pieces — Workers cron triggers, D1, and email sending options on Cloudflare — then build this for you.I have everything I need. Here's the plan: a Worker with a cron trigger (daily at 4:30pm), a D1 database storing the 10 lessons and subscriber progress, and Cloudflare's native Email Sending to deliver each lesson. Let me build the full project.Now the Worker code that ties it all together — the scheduled handler, email sending, and subscription management endpoints.Now let me export the project so you can clone it and deploy it yourself.Your code is ready — use the Copy clone command button on the card to grab the repo before it expires (~36 hours), then push it to your own git provider.

What I built
A complete Cloudflare Edge 10-Day Course Worker that:

Runs on a cron trigger at 30 16 * * * (4:30pm UTC every day)
Stores lessons + subscriber progress in D1 (SQLite at the edge)
Sends each daily lesson via Cloudflare Email Service from info@vistamations.com
Tracks delivery — each subscriber gets one lesson per day, advancing through all 10, then is marked complete
The 10-part series
Introduction to the Cloudflare Edge
Workers — Serverless at the Edge
D1 — SQL Database at the Edge
KV — Key-Value Storage at the Edge
R2 — Object Storage at the Edge
Durable Objects — Stateful Edge Computing
Queues — Asynchronous Messaging at the Edge
Cron Triggers — Scheduled Tasks at the Edge
Email Service — Sending & Receiving at the Edge
Putting It All Together — Full-Stack Edge Apps
Deploy steps
npm install
npm run db:create          # creates the D1 database — copy the ID into wrangler.jsonc
npm run db:init            # loads the schema + all 10 lessons
npm run deploy             # deploys the Worker with the cron trigger
Then subscribe a learner:

curl -X POST "https://cloudflare-edge-course.<your-subdomain>.workers.dev/subscribe?email=learner@example.com"
Two things to set up before it sends email
Email Service domain verification — vistamations.com must be a zone on your Cloudflare account and verified with the Email Service (SPF/DKIM/DMARC records). Email Sending is on the Workers paid plan — if you're on the free plan, the README explains how to swap in Resend instead (same Worker logic, just a different send call).
D1 database ID — after npm run db:create, paste the printed database_id into wrangler.jsonc replacing REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_DATABASE_ID.
Want me to create the D1 database on your account now, or help you verify vistamations.com for email sending?



cloudflare vistamations domain overview

vistamations.com
Monitor and configure how Cloudflare processes your web traffic with the services in the menu.

Review Cloudflare fundamentals
Add tag
24 Hours
7 Days
30 Days


8 AUGUST — 9 AUGUST

Unique Visitors

31

Unique Visitors, - Use download data button to access chart data
Total Requests

75

Total Requests, - Use download data button to access chart data
Percent Cached

49.76%

Percent Cached, - Use download data button to access chart data
Total Data Served

4 MB

Total Data Served, - Use download data button to access chart data
Data Cached

2 MB

Data Cached, - Use download data button to access chart data
View more analytics

Download data
Quick start guide

Do not show again
Your website or app is now behind Cloudflare. Requests to vistamations.com come to Cloudflare first, so we can stop attacks and speed up your web traffic.
Get more out of your Free plan

Customize and test your configuration

Monitor traffic and threats

Get notified

DNS
DNS Setup:
Full
DNS Records

No Workers connected

Build and deploy an application on Cloudflare’s global network, or connect an existing Worker to this domain.
Manage AI bot access
Block AI training bots

Deploys a Cloudflare-managed rule to block bots that we categorize as AI training crawlers from visiting your site.
Do not block (allow crawlers)
See the list of bots and learn more
Manage your robots.txt
Set how Cloudflare manages your robots.txt file, which tells bots and crawlers how they should interact with your site.
Content Signals Policy
Learn more
Quick Actions
Markdown for Agents
Pro plan
Automatically convert HTML to Markdown for requests that use content negotiation headers (Accept: text/markdown)
About Markdown for Agents


Upgrade plan
About Markdown for Agents
Under Attack Mode
Show visitors a non-interactive challenge when they visit your site.
About Under Attack Mode

Development Mode
Temporarily bypass our cache. See changes to your origin server in realtime.
About Development Mode


Run speed test

Configure caching
Domain Registration
Registrar:
Cloudflare
Status:
Active
Expires:
July 1, 2027
Manage domain registration
Active Subscriptions
Free plan
Support Resources
Documentation

Community

API
Zone ID
c105e512d3dffce2854c60adcba41c72
Account ID
a3cfe4297f6a3fedf411ba7e7d6f2751
Get your API token
API documentation
Advanced Actions
Pause Cloudflare
Remove from Cloudflare

